Your Majesties, Your Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, Ladies and
Gentlemen. Francis Crick and Maurice Wilkins have asked me to reply for
all three of us. But as it is difficult to convey the personal feeling
of others, I must speak for myself. This evening is certainly the second
most wonderful moment in my life. The first was our discovery of the
structure of DNA. At that time we knew that a new world had been opened
and that an old world which seemed rather mystical was gone. Our
discovery was done using the methods of physics and chemistry to
understand biology. I am a biologist while my friends Maurice and
Francis are physicists. I am very much the junior one and my
contribution to this work could have only happened with the help of
Maurice and Francis. At that time some biologists were not very
sympathetic with us because we wanted to solve a biological truth by
physical means. But fortunately some physicists thought that through
using the techniques of physics and chemistry a real contribution to
biology could be made. The wisdom of these men in encouraging us was
tremendously important in our success. Professor Bragg, our director at
the Cavendish and Professor Niels Bohr often expressed their belief that
physics would be a help in biology. The fact that these great men
believed in this approach made it much easier for us to go forward. The
last thing I would like to say is that good science as a way of life is
sometimes difficult. It often is hard to have confidence that you really
know where the future lies. We must thus believe strongly in our ideas,
often to point where they may seem tiresome and bothersome and even
arrogant to our colleagues. I knew many people, at least when I was
young, who thought I was quite unbearable. Some also thought Maurice was
very strange, and others, including myself, thought that Francis was at
times difficult. Fortunately we were working among wise and tolerant
people who understood the spirit of scientific discovery and the
conditions necessary for its generation. I feel that it is very
important, especially for us so singularly honored, to remember that
science does not stand by itself, but is the creation of very human
people. We must continue to work in the humane spirit in which we were
fortunate to grow up. If so, we shall help insure that our science
continues and that our civilization will prevail. Thank you very much
for this very deep honor. 
